Kubernetes Architecture
-------------------------

Kubernetes Architecture:
------------------------

a. kube API server: It is a primary management component in cluster and is responsible for orchestrating all operations in cluster
                    Authenticate user-> validate reuest-> retirve data-> update etcd-> schedular-> kubelet

b. kube controller manager: Brain behind orchestration. It is a process that continously monitors the state of various componenets
    within the system and work towards bringing the whole system to a desired state
    1. node controller: Monitor the status of nodes via api server
                    Node monitor period: 10s
                    Node monitor grace period: 
                    pod eviction timeout: 
    2. Replication controller: Maintians desired number of containers all the time

c. kube schedular: Responsible for scheduling pods in nodes  as in It will decide which pod has to adjust in which node
                  kubelet creates the pod in node, depends on the resources it will decide
                  1. filter nodes
                  2. rank nodes

d. kubelet : It is an agent that runs on each worker node . It keeps monitoring the worker node componenets 
   and keep on sending communication to API server component in master node.

e. kubeproxy: It is a virtual componenet that lives in memory . It is a process that runs in each node in kuberneets cluster.
              Its job is to look for new services and forward traffic according to rules.
              Network conponenet and is responsible for comminication between containers

f. Container runtime engine: Its an uderlying software that is responsible for running containers. Ec: docker,rocker,conatiner-D

g. etcd cluster: It is a distributed , reliable, keyvalue store that is simple,secure & fast.  
                 Stores all information about the nodes,pods,cm,secrets, roles, accounts, rolebindings
                 It will install as a pod when we install kubernetes
                  
key: value
------------
Name : Ram
Age : 40
Location: Ayodhya




